.. _opendistro:

########################
Opendistro configuration
########################


Manual actions after installing Software Factory
------------------------------------------------

This section is at the top of the document, because it has very important
information. In Software Factory below 3.6, the sfconfig utility was restoring
index-pattern Kibana objects, which are associated to `logstash-*` indexes,
so a user does not need to configure anything after installation.
Normally, this index-pattern should not exist in Kibana, because it
can't be associated to the index, that does not exist. In that case,
after the first CI job execution, that sends the informations to the Elasticsearch,
the `logstash-*` index will be created so a user with admin privileges
should create an index-pattern manually.

Also with RBAC control,a `kibana` user (which has read-only access) is not
able to create additional data into the `.kibana` index, *so it is required
to login as an admin and go to the section "Discover" in Kibana menu*.
For now, the `kibana` user has temporary permissions to create such data, but
it will be removed in the next release of Software Factory.



Managing internal users
-----------------------

There are few users created in Elasticsearch in Software Factory.
The full list of available users you can find `here<Available users>`_.

Users information are stored in `internal_users.yml` file which is
located in `opendistro_security config directory`:

.. code-block::

   /usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/securityconfig/

For each user, password has been generated by sfconfig tool.
Not encrypted passwords are stored in:

.. code-block::

   /var/lib/software-factory/bootstrap-data/secrets.yaml

More information about the file, you can find `here`_.

.. _`here`: https://opendistro.github.io/for-elasticsearch-docs/docs/security/configuration/yaml/#internal_usersyml


Resetting password
------------------

The best way to change the user password is to change it in the
`secrets.yaml` file and re-run sfconfig tool.

To do that without the tool, you need to generate it using tool:

.. code-block:: bash

   /usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/tools/hash.sh -p <MY PASSWORD>

The generated hash should be added into the `internal_users.yml` file as the
"hash" property for the user in `opendistro_security config directory`.
NOTE: To apply that change, you need to run `securityadmin.sh` script.
Don't forget to put unencrypted password into the `secrets.yaml`
file before executing sfconfig tool!


Securityadmin.sh script
-----------------------

To apply created changes, you need to execute the `dedicated script`_ script.
It is the most important step that you should not forget after doing some
changes.

In the Software Factory 3.6, the command below will setup the `securityadmin.sh`
script. What you need to do is to execute it on the Elasticsearch host.

.. code-block:: bash

   /usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/tools/securityadmin.sh   \
     -cd /usr/share/elasticsearch/plugins/opendistro_security/securityconfig/  \
     -icl -nhnv -cacert /etc/elasticsearch/certs/localCA.pem  \
     -cert /etc/elasticsearch/certs/elasticsearch-admin.crt  \
     -key /etc/elasticsearch/certs/elasticsearch-admin.key    \
     -h $(hostname)

.. _`dedicated script`: https://opendistro.github.io/for-elasticsearch-docs/docs/security/configuration/generate-certificates/#run-securityadminsh


Tenants
-------

Software Factory 3.6 is only configuring one tenant: `global` and
it also disable multi-tenancy (check Kibana configuration file).


Default Opendistro settings
---------------------------

By default Opendistro is running the `install_demo_configuration.sh` script
on installing the package. The script is creating default environment,
configuration for Kibana and Elasticsearch service (also generating the
self-signed certificates).
It is recommended to disable the demo configuration on production
environment (like we do in Software Factory).
